Last updated: 2015 July 11
------------

Potential pitfalls and trouble-shooting

1 Choosing the radial grid

   The appropriate choice of the radial grids is highly dependent on the 
   atomic potential and the laser pulse, with no generally useful default.
   When choosing grid parameters, keep in mind the following factors:

   - Away from the origin, the grid should be able to support the highest
     photoelectron kinetic energy which will be encountered in the simulation.
     For weak-field processes, the maximum energy is (n*h*nu-IP), where n is 
     the desired photon order of the process. For strong-field processes, 
     it is 10*Up, where Up is the ponderomotive energy. The corresponding 
     de Broglie wavelength is 2*pi/sqrt(2*Emax); you will need at least 
     four grid points per de Broglie wavelength to resolve the oscillation; 
     more if accurate results are desired.

   - Close to the origin, the grid should be able to support atomic solutions.
     Rapidly-changing potentials (especially the attractive potentials)
     require higher grid densities near the origin.

   - Avoid rapid changes in grid density. Such changes decrease the accuracy
     of the derivative operators. They also typically require smaller time
     steps to achieve stable propagation.

   - Monitor grid quality by examining the -left- wavefunctions. Rapid 
     oscillations in the left wavefunctions often indicate a poor grid
     choice. Use "initial_wf_dump_prefix" and "final_wf_dump_prefix"
     to generate ASCII dumps of the radial wavefunctions, respectively
     at the beginning and the end of the simulation.

2 Choosing the time step

   The time step is sensitive to the details of the grid, atomic potential,
   and the laser pulse. As the result, it is not possible to set a generally-
   safe default. Here are some hints for spotting trouble:

   - Monitor the wavefunction norm ("<l|r>=" in the main output). As long as
     the wavefunction is not touching the absorbing boundary, the real part
     of the overlap must stay close to one. The imaginary part should always
     be close to zero; values substantially different from zero indicate 
     an excessively large time step and/or a poor choice of the radial grid.

   - Monitor expectation of the total Hamiltonian ("<l|h|r>=" in the main
     output). The real part must remain sensible; in the absence of the
     laser field, it should be above the ground-state energy. As long as
     the wavefunction is not touching the absorbing boundary, the imaginary
     part must be close to zero. For problems where substantial wavefunction
     absorption is expected, expectation of the Hamiltonian excluding the 
     absorbing boundary is available in the detailed output (see input
     keyword "detail_output").

   - If any observables are computed during the simulation (e.g. the dipole),
     monitor the imaginary part of the observables. It must be close to zero.
     The imaginary part of the dipole is available through the detailed output.

   - When using a non-uniform grid, pay close attention to the form of the 
     wavefunction in the densest part of the grid (typically at the origin).
     Presence of excessive, seemingly random noise in this area indicates
     an excessively large time step, especially if the initial wavefunction
     appears smooth in this region. Use input keywords INITIAL_WF_DUMP_PREFIX
     and FINAL_WF_DUMP_PREFIX to save radial wavefunctions. Use a script
     ./examples/plot-density.sh to visualize them.

3 Other parameters affecting accuracy of the simulation

   - Atomic propagator pre-computes and caches some terms which depend on the
     time step. The decision to recompute these terms is affected by (pt_eps_dt)
     parameter.

   - Laser propagator needs to solve a system of non-tridiagonal linear 
     equations when propagating the L=0+1 sub-block. The accuracy of the
     solution is affected by (bicg_epsilon). The default is sufficient
     to achieve machine accuracy in the solutions. Reducing bicg_epsilon
     below 1e-12 will likely result in a very unstable propagator.

   - Propagation for non-linearly-polarized fields requires repeated
     wavefunction rotation. The accuracy of the rotation is affected
     by the (rt_max_rot) parameter. The default (1e-3) should be sufficient
     to maintain at least 10 significant digits in the results. If more
     accurate results are required, rt_max_rot should be decreased further.

